# Keywords

Programming languages are usually based on an actual language. Crazy, I
know. If it's created by English-speaking individual or team, it's
likely going to be using English words.

Some words may be reserved for specific use within a language. For
example, a language may use the word `quit` as a way to stop the
program. These words are called *keywords* and we use them to
communicate with the computer through a particular language.

Imagine we create a programming language whose sole use is to move
through a maze. We may reserve words like `up`, `down`, `left`, and
`right` as those are the ones we would need for our purposes. If we
want to be able to restart the maze, we may also reserve the word
`restart`. 

## Operators

Similar to keywords, we may also reserve symbols to mean specific
things too. 

Most languages supports the basic arithmetic operators like `+` for
addition, `-` for subtraction, `*`  for multiplication, and `/` for
division. 

## Separators

We all need space.

In the English language, space is a way to separate words because words
are how we communicate and a collection of it in a particular order is
how we understand what someone is saying.

In programming languages, we usually use space to separate keywords.
But we face a problem when a *keyword* contains more than one word. If
we separate it with a space, the computer would likely treat the words
as separate keywords. This is when [case styles](/case-styles)
come into place which we'll save for another page. For now, just know
that keywords are likely not going to be space-seperated in programming
languages.  
