# How do I learn programming?

While I often emphasize that the biggest part of programming is solving
problems, that is not what it is all about. Programming is about
building things. As such, I would recommend having an end project in
mind going into it, at least for the short-term.

Do you want to build a website? Do you want to make a game? A software
plugin? A desktop widget? Robots? Vibrating RGB bicycle handles?

It doesn't matter what it is and it can be as ridiculous as you want it
to be as long as you have the grasp of the concept. If you are able to
visualize exactly what you want, you would have an idea of what you
need to learn, and that, in my opinion, is a better path than brute
forcing your way into learning programming systematically.

Google exists, and you'll learn very quickly that it is your best
friend.

The programming landscape is just about as huge as the rest of the
world. There's so many things out there to learn and it would be
impossible to learn them all. And different people want to do different
things. You don't need to know everything. You just need to learn
enough of what you need to make what you want. Above all, have fun.

## Programming Languages

Often, I see people online asking what language they should learn
before they know what they'll use it for. Sure, some programming
languages are better for certain applications, and of course you'll
eventually need to learn one. But programming languages are tools. I
don't think it's the first thing you should be worrying about.

Know what you what to make, maybe look up which languages are good for
that, and pick from there. And while you would need to invest time
learning a language, it's not a total time sink if you do decide to
switch to a new one. Along with learning a language is learning a
certain way of thinking that you need for programming, especially if
you don't have prior experiences. It's likely just syntax that you need
to learn as most of the programming concepts would still apply.
